Add PEtab 2.0 draft (#554)
PEtab-dev/PEtab: doc/v2/documentation_data_format.rst

  A valid PEtab identifier that is not defined in any other part of the PEtab
  problem. This identifier may be referenced in condition, measurement,
  parameter and observable tables, but cannot be referenced in the model
  itself.

- ``modelEntityId`` [STRING, NOT NULL]

  A globally unique identifier defined in the model,
  *that is not a valid PEtab ID* (see :ref:`identifiers`).

  For example, in SBML, local parameters may be referenced as
  ``$reactionId.$localParameterId``, which are not valid PEtab IDs as they
  contain a ``.`` character. Similarly, this table may be used to reference
  specific species in a BNGL model that may contain many unsupported
  characters such as ``,``, ``(`` or ``.``. However, please note that IDs must
  exactly match the species names in the BNGL-generated network file, and no
  pattern matching will be performed.

Extensions
~~~~~~~~~~

Additional columns, such as ``Color``, etc. may be specified. Extensions
that define operations on multiple PEtab problems need to employ a single
PEtab YAML file as entrypoint to the analysis. This PEtab file may leave all
fields specifying files empty and reference the other PEtab problems in the

> extension specific fields.

Reviewer: Is this useful? PEtab Select currently doesn't do this, and I don't see any benefits from doing this. It would just add an additional file to PEtab Select that duplicates information in the Model Space table.

Reviewer: Or by "operations on multiple PEtab problems", do you mean rather, estimating parameters across multiple PEtab problems? Is there a use case? If not, it could be removed from the spec...

Author: It's rather about the petab-select case. But I don't think it makes sense to consider petab-select an extension in the sense used here. It just builds on top of PEtab problems, but doesn't really change the interpretation of any specific PEtab problem. I think it could be removed, but maybe that's a separate discussion.
I think the main point here was that for a PEtab problem, we always want to have a yaml file that lists the extensions.

Reviewer: I agree re: putting extensions that modify a PEtab problem, into the PEtab YAML. Since I don't yet see a use case for "Extensions that define operations on multiple PEtab problems", I don't understand/can't review this part of the spec.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Examples of the visualization table can be found in the
`Benchmark model collection <https://github.com/Benchmarking-Initiative/Benchmark-Models-PEtab/>`_, for example in the `Chen_MSB2009 <https://github.com/Benchmarking-Initiative/Benchmark-Models-PEtab/tree/master/Benchmark-Models/Chen_MSB2009>`_
model.

YAML file for grouping files
----------------------------

> To link the SBML model, measurement table, condition table, etc. in an
> unambiguous way, we use a `YAML <https://yaml.org/>`_ file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To link the model, measurement table, condition table, etc. in an
unambiguous way, we use a `YAML <https://yaml.org/>`_ file.
```

> This file also allows specifying a PEtab version (as the format is not unlikely
> to change in the future) and employed PEtab extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file must also allows specify the PEtab version, and employed PEtab extensions.
```

     - | minimum / maximum of {``a``, ``b``}
       | ``piecewise(a, a<=b, b)``
       | ``piecewise(a, a>=b, b)``
     - float, float
     - float

..
   END TABLE Supported functions

Boolean <-> float conversion
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Boolean and float values are implicitly convertible. The following rules apply:

bool -> float: ``true`` is converted to ``1.0``, ``false`` is converted to
``0.0``.

float -> bool: ``0.0`` is converted to ``false``, all other values are
converted to ``true``.

Operands and function arguments are implicitly converted as needed. If there is
no signature compatible with the given types, Boolean
values are promoted to float. If there is still no compatible signature,
float values are demoted to boolean values. For example, in ``1 + true``,
``true`` is promoted to ``1.0`` and the expression is interpreted as
``1.0 + 1.0 = 2.0``, whereas in ``1 && true``, ``1`` is demoted to ``true`` and
the expression is interpreted as ``true && true = true``.

.. _identifiers:

Identifiers
-----------

* All identifiers in PEtab may only contain upper and lower case letters,
  digits and underscores, and must not start with a digit. In PCRE2 regex, they

>   must match ``[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z_\d]*``.

Reviewer: Above, this was written like
```suggestion
  must match ``[a-zA-Z_]\w*``.
```

Author: Then the other occurrence needs to be fixed. I think we wanted to restrict it to a-zA-Z0-9_.

Reviewer: I think it's the same (`[\w]` = `[a-zA-Z0-9_]` = `[a-zA-Z_\d]`), was just commenting that it wasn't written the same way every time.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions/Cheatsheet

Author: That depends on whether unicode support is enabled or not. I'd prefer being more explicit here.

```
$ python -c "import re; print(re.match('\w', 'Ψ'))"
<re.Match object; span=(0, 1), match='Ψ'>
```

Reviewer: Agreed!

* Identifiers are case-sensitive.

* Identifiers must not be a reserved keyword (see below).

* Identifiers must be globally unique within the PEtab problem.

>   PEtab math function names must not be used as identifiers for other model

Reviewer: Should this be added to the list of "Reserved keywords" then?
